# BlockScheduler
Generate monthly schedules and lesson plan templates for educators.

If you are a teacher and would like to use this program, just go to:
http://shivshank.github.io/BlockScheduler
You will have to enter in your school's calendar under "Snow Days?" All your changes will be saved automatically by default.

If you are a tech person and want your whole school to have access to this program, then see the demo directory's README. You can link to this program from your own web server and store your school's calendar with it. If you don't have a web server, you can use the link above and distribute the school.txt file separately. Users can load a calendar by dragging and dropping the text file onto on the web page.

# The Data Text Spec
School.txt is a "Data Text" file. It is a custom text format made up for use with the program. It was chosen because it is more human readable and less intimidating than JSON or XML.

Hash symbols in the Data Text (\#) mark comments. Lines starting with the hash symbol are comments and will be ignored by the computer. There may be no spaces before the hash mark.

Lines starting with colons (:) mark fields. Every field is a list/array. For instance, :NO SCHOOL is a field that contains a list of dates where there is no school. Weekends are automatically excluded. There may be no spaces before the colon.

Lines with text on them belong to the nearest colon (:) marked field above. So December 31 under ":NO SCHOOL" is a no school date.

Empty lines are also ignored. You can use them to make the file more readable.

This file can be generated by the program, however. Go to http://shivshank.github.io/BlockScheduler and click on the "Snow Days?" tab. Fill out the calendar and then go to the customize tab and hit "export."